= revisions

Revisions provides a simple, wordpress-like, interface for tracking revisions to a model within a single table. It's a bit rudimentary now, but I hope to add to it as necessary.

The basics:
* Stores drafts, published items, and revisions
* 

== INSTALLATION

	sudo gem install revisions --source http://gemcutter.org

then add to environment.rb
	
	config.gem 'revisions', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'


== USAGE

The gem is a bit rigid at the moment, so you'll need to setup two columns for it to use:

	t.string 	:status			# draft, published, revision	
	t.integer 	:revision_of	# Foreign Key that tracks what a model is revising.

You may also want to index these fields.

Once your models are setup, need to declare revisions within any model you intend to track. ie.

	class Response < ActiveRecord::Base
		has_revisions
	end

You can also declare variables that you DON'T want to track (like a slug that has to be unique on the table, publication date, etc.)

	class Response < ActiveRecord::Base
		has_revisions :ignore => ['published_at', 'slug']
	end

In addition to the variables you declare, revisions will ignore the status, id, revision_of, and created_at fields.

Now you're all set to save and apply revisions. Revisions exposes three methods: latest_revision, pending_revisions?, save_revision and apply_revision.

latest_revision:
* returns the latest revision

pending_revisions:
* returns true if there are revisions with a more recent updated_at than the model.

save_revision:
* If your model is a draft, it simply saves the model.
* If your model is published, it saves a revision (does not modify the core model)
* OG model doesn't change, so all associations are intact
* Behaves like standard ActiveRecord save (ie. returns true/false if it saves succesfully and creates an errors array if not)
* can be called with bang (save_revision!) to throw an exception if it doesn't save.

apply_revision
* If called without params, maps the latest revision onto the model, but DOES NOT SAVE.
* If called with a revision, maps that revision, but doesn't save
* if called with bang (apply_revision!), maps a revision AND saves

How about some examples.

Saving a Revision:

	response = Response.create({:title => 'donkey', :status => 'published'})
	response.title = 'monkey'
	response.save_revision						# => true
	response.revisions.size						# => 1
	response.pending_revision?					# => true

save_revision doesn't affect the original response

	response.reload
	revision = response.latest_revision		# => new response object.
	response.title									# => 'donkey'
	revision.title									# => 'monkey'

apply_revision will affect the original response

	response.apply_revision						# => true
	response.title									# => 'monkey'



==Final Suggestion

Since revisions all live within the same table, you probably want to setup a default scope on your model so you don't access revisions directly.

	default_scope :conditions => "status <> 'revision'"


== LIMITATIONS

There are a few things on the to-do list, among them:

* There's no way to prune revisions yet. But that's coming ASAP.
* Revisions assumes your model uses a standard rails Table Name (ie Response => Responses)
* Revisions requires the status and revision_of columns (for now) 


==Author
	
Brian Hamman, hamman+github [ @ ] gmail.com